v23.1.8 release notes (#17600)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/_includes/releases/v23.1/v23.1.8.md

## v23.1.8

Release Date: August 8, 2023

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-8-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- [Azure Blob Storage credentials for implicit authentication](../v23.1/cloud-storage-authentication.html?filters=azure#azure-blob-storage-implicit-authentication) can now be stored in a file with the following YAML format:

    ```
    azure_tenant_id: MY_TENANT_ID,
    azure_client_id: MY_CLIENT_ID,
    azure_client_secret: MY_CLIENT_SECRET
    ```
    Set the environment variable `COCKROACH_AZURE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS_FILE` with the path of the file. The implicit authentication method now first looks for credentials in the file before proceeding to look at the rest of the chain specified in the DefaultAzureCredential class, such as environment variables and Managed Identity. These credentials can also be used for [Key Management Service (KMS)](../v23.1/take-and-restore-encrypted-backups.html#use-key-management-service). [#106688][#106688]

<h3 id="v23-1-8-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

> - Fixed a bug where [`DROP INDEX ... CASCADE`](../v23.1/drop-index.html) could drop unrelated [foreign key constraints](../v23.1/foreign-key.html). For example, when `DROP INDEX ... CASCADE` was executed on a unique index for a table A, an unrelated foreign key constraint on a table B would be dropped if table B had a foreign key reference to table A. [#107793][#107793]

Reviewer: Just tweaking the language a bit for clarity:

Fixed a bug where [`DROP INDEX ... CASCADE`](../v23.1/drop-index.html) could drop unrelated [foreign key constraints](../v23.1/foreign-key.html). For example, when `DROP INDEX ... CASCADE` was executed on a unique index for table A, unrelated outbound foreign key constraints on table B would be dropped, if table B had a foreign key reference to table A. [#107793][#107793] 

@rafiss @Xiang-Gu  Let me know if you have thoughts on the language here

Author: added "outbound"

## v23.1.8

Release Date: August 8, 2023

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-8-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- [Azure Blob Storage credentials for implicit authentication](../v23.1/cloud-storage-authentication.html?filters=azure#azure-blob-storage-implicit-authentication) can now be stored in a file with the following YAML format:

>     ```

Author: Done

    azure_tenant_id: MY_TENANT_ID,
    azure_client_id: MY_CLIENT_ID,
    azure_client_secret: MY_CLIENT_SECRET
    ```

>     Set the environment variable `COCKROACH_AZURE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS_FILE` with the path of the file. The implicit authentication method now first looks for credentials in the file before proceeding to look at the rest of the chain specified in the DefaultAzureCredential class, such as environment variables and Managed Identity. These credentials can also be used for [Key Management Service (KMS)](../v23.1/take-and-restore-encrypted-backups.html#use-key-management-service). [#106688][#106688]

Author: Done

<h3 id="v23-1-8-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

> - Fixed a bug where [`DROP INDEX ... CASCADE`](../v23.1/drop-index.html) could drop unrelated [foreign key constraints](../v23.1/foreign-key.html). For example, when `DROP INDEX ... CASCADE` was executed on a unique index for a table A, unrelated outbound foreign key constraints on a table B would be dropped, if table B had a foreign key reference to table A. [#107793][#107793]

Author: Done

> - Fixed a bug that would result in corruption of the [encryption at rest](../v23.1/security-reference/encryption.html#encryption-at-rest) state which would cause the loss of a node after restart. If multiple nodes encountered this bug at the same time during roll out, this could result in loss of [quorum](../v23.1/architecture/replication-layer.html#overview). See Technical Advisory 106617 for more information. [#107277][#107277]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug that would result in corruption of [encrypted data at rest on a cluster node](../v23.1/security-reference/encryption.html#encryption-at-rest). If a node with this corrupted state was restarted, it could fail to rejoin the cluster.  If multiple nodes encountered this bug at the same time during rollout, the cluster could lose [quorum](../v23.1/architecture/replication-layer.html#overview). Refer to Technical Advisory 106617 for more information. [#107277][#107277]
```
Consider removing the last sentence until the TA is available. I wonder if you could say something like "This note will be updated when more information is available."

The note is a bit unsatisfying -- As a person considering the upgrade, I don't have any sense of what the bug was or whether I'm likely to run into it. Can we provide the versions that are impacted by the bug? Do we want to tell them to contact support if a node fails to rejoin the cluster upon restart?

Author: I made the modifications suggested and changed the last sentence to:
> This note will be updated when more information is available for Technical Advisory 106617.

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v23-1-8-contributors">Contributors</h3>

> This release includes 3 merged PRs by 3 authors.

Reviewer 2: There are 3 release notes but I think there are more than 3 merges (5?) -- can you verify?

Author: Done

## v23.1.8

Release Date: August 7, 2023

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-8-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- [Azure Blob Storage credentials for implicit authentication](../v23.1/cloud-storage-authentication.html?filters=azure#azure-blob-storage-implicit-authentication) can now be stored in a file with the following YAML format:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ yaml
    azure_tenant_id: {MY_TENANT_ID},
    azure_client_id: {MY_CLIENT_ID},
    azure_client_secret: {MY_CLIENT_SECRET}
    ~~~

>     Set the environment variable `COCKROACH_AZURE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS_FILE` to the path of the file. The implicit authentication method first attempts to authenticate using credentials in the file before attempting to authenticate using any other credentials specified in the [`DefaultAzureCredential` class](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.identity.defaultazurecredential?view=azure-dotnet), such as environment variables and Managed Identity. These credentials can also be used for [encrypted backups](../v23.1/take-and-restore-encrypted-backups.html#use-key-management-service). [#106688][#106688]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Set the environment variable `COCKROACH_AZURE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS_FILE` to the path of the file. The implicit authentication method first attempts to authenticate using credentials in the file before attempting to authenticate using any other credentials specified in the [`DefaultAzureCredential` class](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/azure.identity.defaultazurecredential?view=azure-dotnet), such as environment variables and Managed Identity. These credentials can also be used for [encrypted backups](../v23.1/take-and-restore-encrypted-backups.html#use-key-management-service). [#106688][#106688]
```
Remove the localized portion so that the reader's default locale is respected for localized pages on microsoft.com.
